.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2019 Daniel Patrick Abrecht <deb@danielabrecht.ch>,
.\"
.TH console-keyboard-multiplexer 1 "August 11 2019"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
console-keyboard-multiplexer \- Displays a console-keyboard and another program in a single terminal
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B console-keyboard-multiplexer
[options] [-k -- [keyboard] [args]] -- program [args]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The purpose of the
.B console-keyboard-multiplexer
is to run a console-keyboard at the bottom of a terminal and run another program in the remaining space above. The
.B console-keyboard
is provided by another program. 
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B  -h | --help
This help text
.TP
.BI  -u \ user:group
Specify the user and group this program shall run as.
.TP
.BI  -v \ user:group
Specify the user and group the keyboard shall run as.
.TP
.BI  -w \ user:group
Specify the user and group the user specified program shall run as.
.TP
.B  -k
If this option is present, the console-keyboard program to be started should be specified. Otherwise
the console-keyboard program is used, which is usually a symlink to the prefered console keyboard.
.TP
.B  -r
Retain the original pid. The program specified shall replace the original console-keyboard-multiplexer process,
which will continue running in a fork. console-keyboard-multiplexer becoms a child of the specified program.
.TP
.B  -l name
Creates a pts device at /dev/tty$name.
.TP
.BI  -p \ fd
Instead of executing the specified program, print some environment variables to file descriptor fd.
The smallest allowed fd is 3. The name of the pts is exported as environment variable TM_E_PTS.
.
.PP
.B Additional information for dropping privileges & changing users
.RS
.PP
The console-keyboard-multiplexer is usually not able to change user & group as non-root user. It will try, but a failure is ignored.
.PP
A failure to look up a user is always fatal. 
.PP
For security reasons, a failure to change the user is also fatal if the console-keyboard-multiplexer is running as root (uid 0).
.PP
The default user & group is always nobody:nogroup, or to be more precise, 65534:65534.
.PP
You can use decimal numbers or usernames. Usernames which happen to be numbers are not suported.
.PP
The format is "user" to only specify a different user "user:" to also set the group, "user:group" to specify both, and :group to only set the group.
.PP
The supplementary groups are set to the groups belonging to the specified user and include the specified group.
.PP
To not change the user, group, and supplementary groups, just specify a ":".
.PP
The user 65534 (nobody) won't get any supplementary groups except 65534 (nogroup), even if supplementary groups have been added to the user nobody.
.PP
If looking up the supplementary groups of a user fails, the supplementary groups will just all be dropped, with the exception of the specified group.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fBconsole-keyboard-multiplexer\fR -- bash
Execute bash with a console keyboard
